Thaskiya Sulthana G				

E-mail: thaskiyasulthanasifu@gmail.com

Phone no: 9113873649/7760530393

Professional Summary:

Highly skilled Cloud and DevOps Engineer with 9+ years of experience in designing, deploying, and managing scalable infrastructure on AWS, leveraging Terraform for infrastructure-as-code automation. With AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate certification, leveraging expertise in designing and deploying scalable, secure, and efficient cloud architectures that drive business success

Expertise in Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment and good knowledge of AWS services like, VPC, EC2, S3, Elastic Load-balancers, Cloud Front, Autoscaling Groups (ASG), Elastic Block Storage, RDS, IAM, CloudFormation, Athena, CloudWatch, Elastic File System, Lambda, Cloud Trail, Control Tower, AWS Organization, Code Build

I used IAM to create new accounts, roles and groups.

Used Auto scaling and Elastic Load Balancer features on EC2 instances to serve the end users using applications during unexpected traffic/demand.

Configuring IAM roles for EC2 instances and assigns them policies granting specific level access to S3 buckets.

Configured S3 Buckets for EBS backed Snapshots, versioning for data backups and setting up lifecycle management policies.

Using Cloud Watch service, created alarms for monitoring the EC2 server’s performance like CPU Utilization, disk usage etc.

Implemented Auto Scaling for high application availability.

Created elastic load-balancers (ELB) for different applications.

Utilized Amazon Route53 to manage DNS zones, assign public DNS names to elastic load balancers IPs.

Created and worked on Elastic Block Store and Instance Store Volumes.

Configured NAT instance for internal servers within the private subnets thereby not being exposed to the public internet.

Used Elastic Load balancer, Auto scaling, Security groups and NACL’s to manage network security.

Configuring of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) with networking of subnets containing servers.

Creating VPC, ELB, etc. through CloudFormation stack.

DevOps Engineer - Infosys, Bangalore

Provisioned cloud infrastructure using Terraform creating VPCs, subnets, route tables, and security groups, which reduced manual setup time by 70% and automated the infrastructure using GitHub Actions. 

Developed and maintained robust CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins and GitHub Actions leading to increase in deployment frequency and a significant reduction in deployment errors. 

Reduced Docker image size by 90%using multi-stage builds, leading to a 50% decrease in deployment time and 40% savings in storage costs. 

Developed and deployed containerized applications using Docker and Kubernetes, improving scalability, deployment speed, and reliability of applications

Skills Set

Cloud Platforms: Amazon Web Services (AWS) 

CI/CD: AWS Pipeline | Jenkins 

Containerization and Orchestration: Docker | Kubernetes 

Infrastructure Management: Terraform 

Version Control Systems: Git and GitHub 

Scripting and Automation: Bash | Python (Basic)

VPC CMS Tools: BMC Helix, Citrix, Service Now.

Monitoring Tools: Nagios, Prometheus, Grafana

CERTIFICATION

AWS Solution Architect – Associate (Global certification)

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Projects:

ICICI Lombard, Daimler, HCCBPL, AVON

DECLARATION:

I hereby declare that all the above information is correct and true to the best my knowledge.

PLACE: Bangalore                                                                       Thaskiya Sulthana G
